[Music]
very good morning to you
welcome to breakfast with dan walker and
louise mentioned the six o'clock
headlines for you this morning
what now for a level and gcse students
as their exams are cancelled more
details will be announced on how their
work will be assessed
a million laptops and tablets for
children learning at home the education
secretary is set to give more details of
how schools will be supported
as the latest lockdown becomes law and
the news that one in
50 of us now has coveted a stark warning
to follow the rules
if people don't take the stay at home
seriously
the risk at this point in time in the
middle of winter with this new variant
is extraordinarily high
good morning tributes are paid to one of
manchester city's greatest ever players
colin bell known as the king of the
kippax
has died at the age of 74.
good morning it's another cold day ahead
many of us will have a dry day though
with some sunshine
fewer showers than yesterday but later
more rain and snow
is going to come in from the northwest
i'll have further details
in eight minutes
[Music]
good morning it's wednesday the 6th of
january thousands of pupils across
england who've had their gcse and a
levels cancelled
are hoping to find out more details
today on exactly how their work will now
be assessed the education secretary
gavin williamson will make a statement
to the mps
in the commons when he'll also unveil a
support package for young people
following the closure of schools and
colleges
sean dilley reports gavin williamson
is expected to tell mps that education
remains a national priority
despite the lockdown and the closure of
english schools and colleges to most
peoples
he will say that the government will not
ask pupils to sit a levels and
gcse exams in a statement last night the
department for education
said it would work alongside the exam
regulator of
to consult on how to award all pupils
agreed to reflect their hard work
i think it's very important that we
notice that this is a different timing
of lockdown to what it was
um last year and as such it's
vital for students and young people that
they have something to aim for
we cannot just let them feel that this
is going to be something that's decided
for them
by teachers and advisors and whatever it
needs to be something to have agency in
because otherwise
they won't be learning over the next few
months last year after an algorithm
designed to award grades was branded
unfair
teachers own assessments of their pupils
were accepted
with my year group we went through the
um algorithm system that um was put in
place by the government and
obviously there was that was obviously
not effective
at all so hopefully having gone through
that there's a new
year group of kids who will hopefully
have a bit more of a revised
a bit more of an effective um way to
produce these grades
meanwhile the head of the association of
colleges in england has criticized the
government for leaving it to schools and
colleges
to decide whether to proceed with
vocational and technical exams
such as btex warning that a lack of
clear guidance
risks more confusion and uncertainty
sean dilley
bbc news england's third national
lockdown has become law overnight with
mps set to vote on stay at home
restrictions
later today it comes after the number of
new daily confirmed cases of covid
in the uk topped 60 000 for the first
time yesterday our political
correspondent jessica parker reports
the stay-at-home message overnight
england's lockdown
legally came into force but it's
actually today that the measures will be
brought before mps
the prime minister will address the
commons before an expected vote
after yesterday outlining progress on
the vaccine
we've now vaccinated over 1.1
million people in england and over 1.3
million across
the uk and that includes
more than 650 000 people
over 80 which is 23 percent
of all the over 80s in england
on the vaccine labor says ministers must
deliver
the party will back the lock down today
boris johnson said that by mid-february
with hopes for the vaccine roll out
there was the prospect of beginning the
relaxation of some measures
but there are warnings too that the
virus could be with us for some time
if people don't take the stay at home
seriously
the risk at this point in time in the
middle of winter with this new variant
is
extraordinarily high what is going to
happen over time is the risk level is
gradually going to decrease it's not
going to be it's it's
really bad and then suddenly it stops
and will then get over time
to a point where people say this level
of risk is one that society is prepared
to tolerate
and lift you know right down to almost
no
restrictions at all we might have to
bring a few in uh in the next winter for
example that is possible
any rebellion by tory mps here today is
expected to be smaller than those seen
late last year on restrictions
with an acceptance the current health
picture is stark
with the rules now in force the
government's also urging everyone
to follow them jessica parker bbc news
the world health organization has said
it does not recommend following the uk's
decision to delay giving the second dose
of the fisa vaccine for 12 weeks
initially the plan was to offer the
follow-up job 21 days
after the first one but the uk
government has
changed the strategy so more people can
be vaccinated quickly
the world health organization says the
second dose should be given
three to four weeks after the first
u.s politicians will meet today to
confirm joe biden's victory in the
presidential election this is amid
protest from president trump's
supporters some republicans have pledged
to support mr trump's efforts to
overturn the result by formally
objecting at the session but it's a bid
that's almost
certain to fail as our correspondent
barbara platt usher reports
this is a big day in america's
never-ending election
but the city is filling up with people
who are not coming to celebrate
they're making a last stand in a doomed
attempt to keep donald trump in power
because they're convinced he won he
didn't
i do and now that congress is back to
work it's set to put the final seal on
joe biden's presidential victory
but dozens of republican lawmakers are
planning to challenge the results
mindful of the protesters outside
they're not taking this white house
we're going to fight like hell i'll tell
you right now
president trump's been turbocharging the
opposition preaching
massive election fraud promoting the
washington march
and threatening republicans who don't
fall in line
americans who've bought into his
baseless claims have been protesting for
months
activists fans and militia groups
violence broke out at two previous stop
the steel rallies here in washington
this time the mayor has called out the
national guard
off the street the battle has splintered
the republican party
we've seen in the last two months
unprecedented allegations of voter fraud
senator ted cruz is leading the group of
rebels trying to upend the election
other republican officials have
denounced the futile move as an attack
on american democracy
some have added their names to a
bipartisan statement
the 2020 election is over hello hello
hello
for joe biden it is he's focused on the
work ahead
dealing with the nation's coveted crisis
president spends more time whining
and complaining and doing something
about the problem i don't know why he
still wants the job he doesn't want to
do the work
there's no doubt that joe biden will be
president but this campaign
could undermine his legitimacy among
conservatives
and it shows the political strength that
donald trump might still have
even when he leaves office barbara
fletcher bbc news washington
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest
with bbc news